We're now going to get some practice starting and stopping,
enabling and disabling services with systemd. There's
only one utility that we really need to use to do that, systemctl.
This computer has two different hypervisors installed on the system.
The first one being VirtualBox from Oracle and the
second one being VMWare player from VMware.
So, first, let me show that there are no currently
any kernel modules loaded that come from either program.
So, if I do "lsmod",
I don't see anything recognizable as coming from VirtualBox or VMware.
So, first, let's work with VirtualBox.
I can do "sudo systemctl status vboxdrv"
vbox drive, and it shows it's not currently loaded, that it's inactive.
So, let me start it, and then do the status again.
And you see now it says that is currently running and
that it started the VirtualBox kernel module. If I do an "lsmod",
indeed, you see those first four modules, they are associated with VirtualBox.
Once again, I can disable it,
so let me do that with "sudo systemctl
stop vboxdrv".
This time I'm going to append ".service" to it, which a lot of
documentation tells you you should generally do with most systemd services.
Then, if I do the status again,
you'll see that it's currently not running.
For most things, you don't really need to add
the ".service" because there are some other possibilities that can go as extensions there,
but most of the time, you can omit it and things will be just fine.
Okay. So, now let's do the same exercise with VMware.
So, let me do "sudo
systemctl status vmware".
Okay. It says that it's not currently loaded
and you notice that it mentiones the "systemd-sysv-generator",
that's because VMware has not configured this on the system as a proper systemd service,
it's still set up basically as a SysVinit service,
and so there's a compatibility layer that goes with
systemd that redirects the commands to more old-fashion System V commands.
If I want to start the service,
and I can just do that once again with start.
Then, if I do lsmod, now,
you'll see there's several modules associated with VMWare,
also four modules, actually five modules in this case.
If I do a status command again,
it tells you quite a bit about what's actually running.
Then, I can stop it and do the status command again,
and it shows that this query had been stop.
Now, in either case,
I can set it up so that the services start when the system is loaded,
so that I have either VMWare,
VirtualBox always available to me without having to manually start it,
and I would do that with "sudo systemctl
enable vmware", and I can do the same thing with vboxdrv.
You'll notice, with VMware,
it says it rerouted it to /sbin/chkconfig. That shows chkconfig,
which shows you that compatibility layer.
But it didn't actually start either one of them.
If I do lsmod,
you see the modules are not loaded,
but next time I boot, they will all be loaded.
Now, I don't recommend you run both of these programs at the same time.
They do similar things with the Linux kernel and they can get in each other's way,
so you should disable at least one of them.
So, I will disable VirtualBox.
So, do "sudo disable vboxdrv" and then,
I forgot to say systemctl.
Then, next time the system starts,
it will only start VMware.